Are an example to we have a parallel circuit.
We have an ideal 12 volt battery applies a potential difference across this parallel combination of
a four and a six ohm resistor as shown you know we have a series of questions really into this.
Number one find the equivalent resistance so basically if you combine both of those.
How can I combine them to form one equivalent resistance.
Now I'm here you simply use the equation one over our equivalent.
If there's only two.
It's simply one over our one plus one over our two.
That's the equivalent resistance of this network.
Follow that up one over four plus one over six is one over our equivalent.
Can put that on a common denominator maybe choose only 12.
So this is three over 12 plus two over 12.
That gives me 5 over 12.
OK.
So the total are equivalent now.
Careful now you still have to flip that over.
So it should be 12 over 5 12 over 5 ohms and get 12 over 5.
Gives me 2.4.
All right.
So that's the equivalent resistance what's the total current now.
So again you're going to have some amount of current That's again I'm not showing you the battery a
lot of times they don't show you the battery or but the battery might look something like this 12 volts
and you can connect it like that.
So what you're going to have is you're going to have some current over here and this left most branch.
That's what they're referring to the total current.
After that some of their current is going to split and go through this forum resistor.
Some of that current is going to continue along this and go through the six ohm resistor then recombined
to give you the total current again.
So what they're really asking you for is what is the total current here.
But remember when we simplify this circuit using this equivalent resistance we basically have a very
very simple circuit.
We have a 12 volt battery and we have one equivalent resistance of 2.4 ohms.
It's very easy to solve.
Right.
This is 2.4 this is 12 volts.
The total current in this case given by ohms law.
V divided by our V over r r equivalent.
So at the end you get I which is 12 over 2.4 now 12 over 2.4 gives me 5 amps.
OK.
So that means you have 5 amps here you have five amps going through the battery you have five amps that
goes all the way to this junction.
That's the total current five amps.
Now what's the current through each resistor.
All right.
The important thing now about parallel circuits is that the potential difference across every branch
of the circuit must be the same.
And we know what the potential differences across this branch is it's 12 volts.
So that means you have to have a 12 volt potential drop across each branch of the circuit.
So that means that the voltage of the battery V has to be equal to.
Well if you go across this first branch across this resistor over here you have to have a voltage drop
equal to the 12 volts.
That's our voltage drop at 12.
That must be equal to four multiplied by the current.
Call it Aitu flowing then branch will be the current to maybe call this other one.
I3 all right.
So automatically you can write that Aitu simply 12 over 4 which gives me 3 amps.
That's good.
You have to have a number less than five you got five going into the junction.
And now I'm going to have three that goes down here.
Now we've got to find how much is going to go through the six ohm resistor again if the same thing the
voltage of the battery the voltage across every branch must be the same.
And that's 12.
It must be six multiplied by three.
In this case you automatically see that the current i3 simply 12 over 6 when you get to Imp's Hey look
at that.
So we get three going down here we have two going down here we have five going in.
Everything works out perfectly.
If you add both of those you should get five amps.
OK.
Next the power delivered to each resistor.
So for part D.
This was part C the power delivered to the four ohm resistor.
Same as before.
That's the value of the resistance multiplied by the current.
Now which current would you choose.
Now in this case you have three different values to be a little bit careful you have to choose the current
flowing through that resistor we're looking at the former is this.
So in this case you really have to use the three amps.
Don't forget the square at the end you get nine multiplied by four you get 36 watts.
That's the energy dissipated or the rate at which energy is being dissipated in this forum resistor
for the 6 ohm resistor.
Now power dissipated is simply 6.
What is the current flowing through the 6 ohm resistor.
I 3 i3 we calculate is two amps.
Don't forget to square it you get four multiplied by six.
Is it 24 Watts.
What if you we're going to go now and add them up.
What is the power supplied by the battery.
Well the power supplied by the battery actually let me just do that case over here first.
That's part of the power supplied by the battery by this 12 volt battery is given by the voltage of
the battery multiplied by the current flowing through.
In this case it's the total current.
This five amps flowing through there.
So that gives you 12 multiplied by five gives me 60 watts that's the total power being delivered by
the battery.
And notice here if you actually add the power being dissipated by both resistors what you are going
to end up getting is also 60 watts.
So whatever energy you're putting in per unit time is the energy being dissipated per unit time because
you're not storing any energy anywhere.
OK kind of a standard parallel circuit problem.
Make sure you understand all the steps here and it's pretty straightforward.
It's kind of easier when those only a single battery and kind of not a lot going on in this branch or
you can right away right down that the voltage across each branch has to be the same and it's pretty
straightforward to calculate.